All right, in our last few videos, we're able to use our tools for special relativity to show that
a mass particle could indeed exist.
However, we didn't really know much about what it was or even if it did exist right.
The theory and the equations were telling us that this massless particle would have to have a speed
equivalent to the speed of light, which suggests that that massive particle is light.
But we have not actually observed yet.
So as I usually say and a lot of my videos is first, you want to observe, then analyze, develop theories
and then critique, right?
Whenever you try to prescribe how the universe should behave based upon theory that can lead you astray
and result in a lot of problems.
So back in the day when this was probably first observed and first looked at, it probably started very
strange, probably sounded like a radical idea that people were very hesitant to actually accept.
So what happened is a lot of experiments had to be conducted to try to figure out what in the world
this mass, this particle associated with light, which is has previously been theorized to be some
kind of wave.
What exactly is this?
What I'm going to do in this video is it's going to be sort of a history based lesson.
I'm going to talk about some of the experiments, some of the problems associated with them and the
results that came out of that, which helped to define what this mass was particle is and form the basis
of quantum mechanics as we know it today.
Now first, what I want to do is review what we know about light from a classical perspective from INET.
Right?
So from a classical perspective, physicists believe that the energy of radiation of light, of any
kind of wave which had a given frequency f should be a continuous, unchanging variable.
And it should also be proportional to the square of the amplitude or intensity of the wave.
What in the world am I talking about here?
Let me break that down for you.
Now, if you had a light and you increase the intensity or in other words, you made it brighter, they
theorized that that should increase the energy.
Furthermore, if you had some kind of light of some kind of frequency that was supposed to be continuous
throughout space, it should not be off.
OK, so this is an idea we took for granted back in the day.
That light was a wave and it had these properties.
So given that we started studying light further and the first instance in which we gave hints towards
a mass particle came in nineteen hundreds when we were studying the energy of black body radiation.
So during this time, scientists were taking a black body.
If you don't know what a black body is, as the name implies, it's black.
The color black absorbs all light, absorbs all energy.
It doesn't reflect anything, but all we know is that when that body is heated up, it emits some radiation.
And what scientists were trying to do is they're trying to measure the distribution of that energy or
radiation per each wavelength.
So they're trying really to develop some kind of spectrum.
And they were having a lot of difficulty doing it because they assumed that this was really in essence
what they did.
They feel the same lesson I talked about at the beginning of this course, right?
They are trying to prescribe how nature should behave instead of observing what it was doing and then
using that to develop their theories, right?
So what happened in nineteen, while this individual named Max Planck was studying the energy of black
body radiation trying to resolve this issue?
He first asserted that radiation emitted by a body is quantized, right?
It comes in discrete quantities, but it's also quantized by its integral multiples.
While this quantity h times f OK, you know what f is f is the frequency of the radiation of the light.
But when the world is this h guy, this h is called the Planck constant, and it's something he was
able to measure and determined experimentally.
But what he found is that whenever he assumed that radiation was quantized up, there are packets of
energy associated with it.
He got results which.
He was able to predict that the data behave in a certain way and it matches experimental results.
So this gave way to the fact that, hey, you know, this idea that it should be a continuous wave,
a continuous variable?
Maybe it's discrete ized.
Maybe it has quantized energy energy packets associated with it.
And it isn't what we have theorized to be in electromagnetism.
So this is the first instance in which we can all this quantized idea, and that should sound like quantum
mechanics.
And it's literally the birth of quantum mechanics of quantized ideas.
Now.
When we sort of gave name to this massless particle, it wasn't through black body radiation, but a
lot of the experiments that did give birth to what this NASA's particle is borrowed a lot from this
experimental black body radiation, which Max Planck first developed.
Now, jump ahead five years.
What happened?
This is when Einstein came into into the picture.
So at this time, scientists were struggling with another idea another new phenomena, which is known
as the photo electric effect.
Now, if you have not heard of this before, have it's probably associated.
You recall that it's associated with Einstein.
But if you have not heard of it before, as the name implies, you know, I like to say the words dictate
the meaning behind physics.
The photo electric effect states that if you have some kind of incident light upon a metal surface,
some metal body, it's going to emit electrons.
And what you can do is you can shine incident light on metal and you can collect those electrons and
measure some kind of current they create, right?
This is the basis of how solar panels work, right?
It takes the sunlight, it converts it into electrons, and then that that current is utilized.
OK, this is a modern use of this idea.
But back in the day, we're doing experiments on this photoelectric effect and some weird ideas were
cropping up.
OK, so how will we?
Measuring this effect back in the day, they put together this apparatus where they had a glass isolated
tube and they had two metal plates as depicted, one right here and one right there.
So scientists would do is they would shine some light.
Some radiation onto one plate.
And that what he meant electrons, which would zoom over to this other plate, which could collect those
electrons, and then you could measure the current as follows over here with nanometer.
Now, what you can do is you can apply a voltage to this plate here, and depending upon the voltage
that can either attract these negative particles, these negative electrons, or repel those electrons.
So.
You know, this idea in and of itself doesn't seem super strange from a classical standpoint because
you should light into something else, you know, maybe that absorbs light that he met some kind of
electrons.
Right?
And you can actually measure the energy of these emitted electrons using the voltage here.
What you can do is if you have a potential ness to see that when you increase the stopping potential,
the S on this plate, what's going to happen is that at some point that potential is going to be so
high that no electron has sufficient energy, kinetic energy to overcome that potential.
And you don't collect or generate any kind of current right.
So what you can say is that you can say the kinetic energy which is generated in this electron.
One of these emitted mass should be equal to the potential you measure towards the electron charge.
As follows, right?
Conservation of energy.
So you can equate the kinetic energy to the energy, what's trying to stop these electrons from being
collected and generating current?
And what we observed by measuring these quantities is something interesting.
So if we back up a bit back up here, classical theory in electromagnetism states that.
If you increase the intensity of your light, your energy of that radiation should increase proportionally.
But what we found is that if we increase this incident light upon this plate.
If it's increase that the intensity of the instability is increased, the number of ejected electrons
increases, but their kinetic energy does not change at all.
Instead, scientists were measuring this.
Yes, in such a way that you get the same kinetic energy with the same energy as electron.
Regardless of the intensity of the light that's coming in.
Right, so that was a problem that seemed like electromagnetism did not fail, that it did fail, it
could not explain this phenomenon.
We had another problem number two.
That, you know, is the incident lights frequency F is reduced below some critical frequency.
If not.
So I just found that no electrons were ejected.
They can increase the intensity of the light as much as they wanted, it would not get ejected, but
that seemed that seemed weird because, you know, if you got a small frequency, you could just bump
up the intensity according to this.
That would increase the amplitude.
That would increase the magnitude of that wave.
And that should increase the energy and allow some electrons to be ejected, so when the world is going
on here, and this was very confusing back in the day and it was not until I started looking around
and said, Push you crazy guys.
It's right in front of you.
Listen to Nature.
It's speaking to you.
Take what it's giving you and use that to develop your theories.
I don't try to save your precious electromagnetism.
Listen to the universe, that's your friend.
So what he said, he made this stark statement back in 1985 which resolved this.
And help to really identify some kind of massless particle, what he said is that the energy and a beam
of light is not distributed continuously through space.
No.
Rather, it consists of a finite number of energy quanta, just like Max Planck said, which are localized
at points which cannot be subdivided and which are absorbed and emitted only as whole units.
OK.
That's a big condensed statement, let's try to break that down, so we said it consists of a finite
number of energy quanta.
So another way of thinking about that is that, you know, maybe light is a wave and then it has some
packets of energy.
Along that wave, maybe something like this traveling along that wave, that's sort of like a wave particle
duality as such.
And as these, these little packets hit the electrons, the electron absorbed that energy and flies
out.
So in a finite number of energy, it's local.
Localized at different points can all be subdivided.
And it's absorbed any minute only as whole units, well, that sort of suggests that it's.
Sort of a particle, some particle with an energy.
That could be this hgf that Max Planck identified, but it's important to note that this idea here it
takes max plunks idea of quantization and builds upon it by stating that it's we have these segmented
packets of that energy.
Now, the question then becomes, how does this actually result with one this year?
Well, by adopting this theory.
It helps explain both one and two as well as well one states that, you know, at the intensity of the
incident like is increased.
We see that the number of ejected electron increases, but the kinetic energy does not change at all.
Well, we have higher intensity of light, we're going to have more packets or packets are going to
have a higher chance.
We're packets of protons have higher chance of hitting an electron, which means that you would get
more electrons emitted off of this place, so that makes sense.
But the energy?
Of each photon that's hitting it right, there has to be HSF, so the electrons that are emitted, the
energy must be equal to each.
Right.
There's just one photon hitting it, and that's the kinetic energy you get.
Kinetic energy is unchanged, so that explains that explains it pretty elegantly and very easily.
That's probably about, you know, if you have some frequency f that's reduced below a frequency, if
not, no electrons are ejected.
Well, to solve that again, that's pretty easy.
You can just say that if the photon energy earth is lower than the amount to eject an electron, right?
If a photon has lower energy than the electron needs to escape the metal.
The photo will be unable to eject any electron.
Right.
That's plausible.
So what we know is that an electron is bound to different metallic atoms and it requires energy to be
released from it.
So what if you fire a light that has photons packets of energy?
H f that's less than that energy, the work potential of that metal, that's what it's called.
To get by.
So we say the work potential to get out.
We define it as if not of metal.
What's going to happen?
Well.
It's going to stay intact, can't it can't escape its trapped in an energy potential sort of use quantum
mechanical terms.
So.
What Einstein did is he's like, guys, look, this makes sense, this is what nature is conveying.
This is what it's telling us.
Let's listen.
Let's not let electromagnetism.
Plug our ears so we don't hear what the universe is communicating.
This is just what it is, and it explains everything brilliantly.
So we went a step further.
What he said is that, well, any kinetic energy that these electrons have, the photons are going to
hit the electron in this plate.
It's going to come off and the energy it has is.
The energy of the photon mines, the energy that is needed to escape.
Right.
That that's plausible.
So what he did, he said that if you do an experiment and measure all this, this stuff.
Measure this guy.
The actual energy.
Of that electron.
You should be able to confirm what I'm talking about here.
So Einstein did not do the experiment himself, and I'm sort of running out of space here, but.
Another individual later on, then an experiment, it was actually quite hard to conduct.
Much of the details myself, but.
He collected data.
Well, look, something like this.
And nowadays we use Excel, but if you fit some kind of line to this.
As as such, which is not working for me because my blue marker is dead.
It was just dead completely, so we're going to pack up and we're going to use a green.
So when you said a line, you got something like that, you see quite.
Quite clearly, basically this.
Resources, your energy.
Is your frequency?
And this guy is your intersect.
So using this, the URL to verify that this.
This guy here, energy is equal to Jeff Plant's constant.
They got a value for that and a match exactly what Max Clark was saying.
So you look at these experiments.
And we suddenly have evidence.
Which they vote is the fact that light and radiation.
Is composed of massless particles, which are quantized packets of energy, right?
So we have some evidence of it.
We can measure sort of the energy associated with that particle.
But it was still a little unclear because a particle.
It has energy, but it should also have momentum.
OK.
So how do you calculate the momentum?
So at this point, people still do not believe that there was a massive particle, that light must be
some kind of wave and it could not be a particle.
It did not have this wave particle duality, which you take for granted nowadays.
So.
What had happened is, and I'll talk about this in the next video, the next topic we'll dive into is
we had to do something known as the Compton experiment to assess the Compton effect.
And basically, what you could do is you could take any kind of instant light.
Try and scatter it against some kind of particle, some electron.
What have you and then measure the energy of that scattered particle?
And that can help you determine precisely both the energy and the momentum.
OK.
That's what we're going to talk about in the next video.
Stay tuned.